1. How many collision domains are in a 10-port hub, an 8-port switch (L2), and a 4-port router, respectively? A collision domain is the segment of a network, where if more than one device tries to send data simultaneously, it causes a collision and the data is lost. 
a) 1, 8, and 4, respectively. 
b) 10, 8, and 4, respectively. 
c) 10, 10, and 10, respectively. 
d) 5, 4, and 2, respectively.

Answer - b

2. Map the devices with their associated layer in the TCP/IP model. 
A. NIC 
1. Physical Layer 
B. Router 
2. Data Link Layer 
C. Bridge 
3. Network Layer 
D. Hub 
4. Transport Layer 
a) A-2, B-3, C-2, and D-1 
b) A-3, B-3, C-2, and D-1 
c) A-3, B-3, C-1, and D-2 
d) A-2, B-3, C-2, and D-2

Answer - a

3. Map the protocols with their associated layer in TCP/IP. 
A. FTP 
1. Physical Layer 
B. UDP 
2. Data Link Layer 
C. PPP 
3. Network Layer 
D. IP 
4. Transport Layer 
E. HTTP 
5. Application Layer 
a) A-1, B-2, C-3, D-4, and E-5 
b) A-5, B-4, C-3, D-2, and E-1 
c) A-5, B-2, C-2, D-3, and E-5 
d) A-5, B-4, C-2, D-3, and E-5

Answer - d

4. Which of the following statement(s) are concerned with encapsulation in computer networks? 
I. It involves an addition of a header and trailer to the actual data as it moves down in the TCP/IP protocol stack. 
II. At the transport layer, encapsulation includes port numbers and at the network layer, encapsulation includes IP addresses. 
a) Only (I) 
b) Only (II) 
c) Both (I) and (II) 
d) Neither (I) nor (II)

Answer - c

5. Which of the following is NOT a disadvantage of the circuit switching technique over the packet switching technique in computer networks? 
a) Delay in the establishment of a dedicated connection between two hosts 
b) Inefficient utilization of the resources 
c) Less scalable 
d) Provides a dedicated communication path between two end hosts

Answer - d

6. Choose the FALSE statement. 
a) Bridges filter network traffic based on IP addresses. 
b) Hubs share bandwidth among all attached devices. 
c) Switch provides dedicated bandwidth for each LAN segment

Answer - a

7. Which transport layer protocol will be chosen by an application that does not require any reliability? 
a) TCP 
b) UDP

Answer - b

8. You are a network administrator in your college. You are asked to do troubleshooting for an issue of a remote server using telnet. Which of the following consideration(s) should you keep in mind when using Telnet for this task? 
a) Telnet is more secure than SSH while making a remote connection. 
b) It is advisable to use telnet in a local network rather than on the internet to avoid security risks. 
c) Telnet encrypts all traffic by itself during communication. 
d) Telnet transmits data as a plaintext including login credentials.

Answer - b & d

9. Choose the statement(s) that correctly describe(s) the roles and responsibilities of the Network Interface Card (NIC) in the computer networks. 
I. NIC takes over the responsibility of segmenting large chunks of data into smaller packets that can be transmitted over the networks. 
II. It converts digital data from the computer's processor to an analog signal. 
a) Only (I) 
b) Only (II) 
c) Both (I) and (II) 
d) Neither (I) nor (II)

Answer - d

10. Identify the INCORRECT statement(s) related to Bridge and Switch (L2) in computer networks. 
a) For small enterprises (without the need for features like QoS, VLANs, and STP), a switch is more economical/suitable in the case of segmenting the traffic between two LANs than a bridge. 
b) Switches operate in full-duplex mode while bridges in half-duplex mode. 
c) Switches broadcast traffic to all ports, while bridges broadcast the traffic to designated ports (ports having the same VLAN port as the sender) by using a MAC address table. 
d) Switches and bridges are both equally important in modern, large, and complex networks.

Answer - b, c & d
