1. What is the difference between a 'domain' and 'zone' in DNS? 
a) Zone is a subset of a domain, and a domain can contain multiple zones. 
b) Domain is a subset of a zone, and a zone can contain multiple domains. 
c) Domain is a logical hierarchy, whereas a zone is a physical DNS server. 
d) DNS zones must be physically separated from each other.

Answer - A

2. What makes FTP more secure than TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol)? 
a) TFTP lacks features like user authentication and secure data transfer mechanisms. 
b) TFTP allows simultaneous connections without encryption. 
c) TFTP uses TCP, which is inherently less secure than UDP. 
d) TFTP is designed for unreliable networks, making it inherently less secure.

Answer - A

3. In the HTTP architecture, which of the following best describes a Uniform Resource Locator (URL)? 
a) A secure protocol for encrypting HTTP communication. 
b) A client-side scripting language for web development. 
c) A unique identifier for resources, including the protocol, hostname, and path 
d) A header that allows caching of web pages for better performance.

Answer - C

4. Which of the following statements about HTTP proxy servers is NOT true? 
a) They can cache responses from web servers to improve performance. 
b) They can filter requests based on predefined rules. 
c) They only work with secure connections (HTTPS). 
d) They act as intermediaries between clients and web servers.

Answer - C

5. Which of the following is correct for statements P, Q and R? 
P: HTTP uses TCP port 80 for communication. 
Q: TELNET transmits data in an encrypted format. 
R: DNS can operate on both TCP and UDP. 
a) Both P and R is False, Only Q is True 
b) Both P and R is True, Q is False 
c) Only Q is True 
d) Only R is False

Answer - B

6. What is the correct syntax to be written in the command line to initiate a Telnet connection to the web server of www.iitkgp.ac.in? 
a) telnet//www.iitkgp.ac.in 
b) telnet:www.iitkgp.ac.in 
c) telnet://www.iitkgp.ac.in 
d) telnet www.iitkgp.ac.in

Answer - D

7. Which of the following protocols allow non-ASCII data to be sent over email? 
a) IMAP4 
b) TELNET 
c) MIME 
d) POP3

Answer - C

8. Which of the following is true about the mail transfer protocol? 
S1: Can send image files with the help of IMAP4 
S2: Can send image files with the help of POP3 
S3: IMAP4 is more secure than POP3 
a) Only S1 
b) Only S2 
c) S2 and S3 only 
d) S3 Only

Answer - D

9. A user is accessing a webpage hosted on a remote server. The webpage contains multiple elements, such as text content, several images, and a JavaScript file. The user's browser starts by initiating a connection to the server and sending requests to fetch the necessary resources. Assume the following steps: 
The browser must first resolve the web server's domain name to an IP address. 
After the server IP is obtained, the browser opens a TCP connection to request the webpage and its embedded resources. 
The packets leaving the user's machine, in some order, are as follows: 
(i) HTTP GET request for the main HTML page 
(ii) DNS query to resolve the web server's domain name 
(iii) TCP SYN to establish a connection with the server 
(iv) HTTP GET request for a JavaScript file 
(v) HTTP GET request for an image file 
Which of the following is the correct chronological order in which the packets leave the user's computer (from first to last)? 
a) (ii), (iii), (i), (v), (iv) 
b) (iii), (ii), (i), (v), (iv) 
c) (ii), (iv), (i), (iii), (v) 
d) (ii), (i), (iii), (v), (iv)

Answer - A

10. Consider the following statements: 
S1: A user requests a web page that consists of some text and one image. For this page the client will send one request message and receive 4 response messages. 
S2: It is not possible to send two different web pages (for example, www.nptel.ac.in/student.html and www.nptel.ac.in/course.html) over the same persistent connection. 
Which one of the above statements are true? 
a) Only S1 is true 
b) Only S2 is false 
c) Both S1 and S2 are true 
d) Both S1 and S2 are false

Answer - D
